This is a fun book to read because then you just and there what the original sources to read. You know, it's like a... It's like the Harold Bloom of economics, right? You just like, it took a book written for smart people. Okay, so let's just jump into it. Okay, the book we're talking about is... Goat, who is the greatest economist of all time and why does it matter? So in the section in Keynes you quote him I think talking about Robert Marshall. He says Alfred Marshall. I'm sorry, Alfred Marshall. He says... The Master Economist must possess a rare combination of gifts. mathematician historian statesman philosopher. No part of man's name. sure man's nature or his institutions must lie entirely outside his regard. And you say, well, Keynes is obviously talking about himself, because he was all those things. you'd be the only person who was all those things at the time. You must have known that. and ask now. So what should we make? Tyler Cowan, citing Keynes using this quote, quote, this also So flies are totally common. I don't think it applies to me. What's the exact list again? statesman that I surely hold at the treaty of our size of the comparable I don't know, we're not watching that, I'm sure you talked to all the people who matter quite a bit. states been the most economists but I don't come close to Keynes in the breadth of his high level achievement in each of those areas. Okay, let's talk about them. those achievements. So chapter 12, general theory of interest, employment, and money. Here's a quote. It is probable that the actual average result of investments. even during periods of progress and prosperity have disappointed the hopes which promoted them. If human nature felt no temptation to take a chance, no satisfaction, profit apart, and constructing a factory, a real way, a mine or farm. There might not be much investment merely. a real way, a mine or farm. There might not be much investment merely as a result. regulation. Now it's a fascinating idea that investment is irrational. or most investment throughout history is international. But when we think today about the fact that investing exist for vendors, like reasons VCs probably make on average less and the market. There's a whole bunch of different examples you can go through, right? usually doesn't achieve this energy that expects. Throughout history has more of most investment. in selfish irrational? Well, Adam Smith was the first point I had to have made this point. that projectors, I think he called them, are overly optimistic. People who do startups are overly optimistic. People who have well entrenched VC franchise. make a lot of money and there's some kind of bifurcation in the distribution. All right, then there's a lot of others who are just playing at it and maybe hoping to break even. So the rate of return on private investment. if you include small businesses, it's highly skewed, and just a few. percent of the people doing this make anything at all. So there's a lot to what Cain said. I don't think he described it adequately in terms of a probability distribution. probably didn't have the data and I wouldn't reject it out of hand. >> Another example here is. is this is something your colleague, I was talking about a lot is that. don't internalize most of the gains to get to society. So here's another example where You know, the entrepreneur compared to one of us for some employees is that much better off for taking the extra risk and working that way. What does this tell us about? Is it is a Marvel sense? that you know we're actually more of a seeking than it selfishly good for us. That was Rufan Brenner's claim in some of his books on risk. Again, I I think you have to distinguish between different parts of the distribution. So it seems there's a very large... number of people who foolishly start small businesses. Maybe they overly value a when they ought to just get a job with a relatively stable company. when they ought to just get a job with a relatively stable company. They're part of the thesis is correct. And I doubt if there's really big social returns to whatever those people do even if they could make it go with it. But there's another part of the distribution people who are actually innovating or have realistic prospective doing so. or I do think those social returns are very high. Now that 2% figure. That's cited a lot. I don't think it's really based in much real. It's maybe not a crazy seat of the pants estimate, but people think like, "Oh, we know it's And we really don't. So look at Picasso, right? He helped generate wisdom with Brock and some other artists. How good is our estimate of Picasso's compared to the spinoffs from Picasso. We just don't really know. We don't know it's 2%, it could be 1%. It could be 6%. How different do you think it is in art versus I don't know entrepreneurship? is different kinds of entrepreneurship. There's different industries there as well, right? I'm not sure it's that different So say if some people start blogging, a lot of people copy them. start painting in a particular style, a lot of people copy them. I'm not saying the numbers But they don't sound like issues that in principle are so different. overestimate or underestimate it might be wrong but in which ways are wrong. I see if the pan says to me it would be... to 5% so I think it's pretty close. But again that's not based on anything firm. Here's another quote from Kains. Investment based on genuine long-term experience. is so difficult as to be scarcely you practical, Google. Who is so difficult as to be scarcely attempts at much surely lead much more laborious days and run greater risk than he who tries to than the crowd how the crowd will behave. So one may look at this is like oh he just doesn't understand efficient market hypothesis it's like before random But there's things you can see in the market today where, you know, are the prospects for future dividends so much higher after COVID than they were immediately after the crisis. are the prospects for future dividend so much higher after COVID than they were immediately How much of market behavior can be explained by these sorts of claims? I think Kane said the view that for his time, you could be a short run speculator and in fact beat the markets. And he believed that he did So, and at least he did for some periods of his life. That may have been luck, or maybe he did have... special insight. It probably wasn't true in general, though we don't really know a bit of It's all during, you know, great in at that time. Maybe they're just for a profit opportunity. for smarter than average people. So that's a good thing for the 1980s for smarter than average people. I'm inclined not to believe it but again I don't think it's absurd. is saying, for people who want money, this is biased toward the short term, you can get your profits and get out. And that's damaging long term investment. in which in fact you wanted to socialize. So he's being led to a very bad place by the But again, we shouldn't dismiss it out of hand. Why is it not easy to... to retrospectively study what how efficient markets were back then in the same way we can study it now in terms of like, oh you look at the price earnings ratios and then the hot over the dividend. afterwards over the coming decades for those companies based on their sacrifice or something. I don't know. how many publicly traded firms that were in Britain at that time. I don't know how good the day are things like bid asks spread. At what price you actually execute trades can really matter for testing efficient market hypothesis. Probably we can't tell, even though there must be share price data of some sort at what We don't have the sort of data we have now or you can just test anything you want. interesting point is not only is it not profitable but even if you succeed. society will look at the contrarian in a very negative light. be like doubly punished for being a contrarian. But this is gonna be the case, right? Like you have somebody like Warren B for being a contrarian. But this is gonna be the case, right? Like you have somebody like Warren Buffett or Charlie Munger, would get our activity revered. They're not punished in public opinion. And they pursued most long-term strategies. But again, trying to make sense of canes, if you think about long-term investing and I don't think he meant Buffett style investing. I think he meant building factories. trying to figure out what people would want to buy 25 years from that point in time. that probably was much harder than today. See you at-- less access to data, your ability to build an international solution. supply chain was much weaker geopolitical turmoil at various points. and time was much higher. So again, it's not a crazy view. I think there's a lot in cane. it's very much of his time, but he presents out of a kind of overconfidence as being And it's not general. It may not even be true, but there were some reasons why you could leave it. Another quote from Kains, I guess I want to read the whole quoted full, but basically says over time as investments are markets get more mature. more and more of equities are held basically by passive investors, people who don't have a... direct hand in the moment of the enterprise. And the share of the market that's passive investment. is much bigger. Should we be worried about this? As long as that the margin people can do things. I'm not very worried about it. So there's two different kinds of worries. One is that no one monitors the [AUDIO OUT value of companies. It seems to me those incentives aren't weaker. There's more reason. search than ever before, is maybe a problem not enough companies are publicly held. But you can always, if you know something the rest of the market doesn't buy yourself short and do better. The other worries, those passive investors have economies of scale and the lender. colluding with each other and you'll have say like three to five mutual funds of equity firms owning a big chunk of the market portfolio. And in essence, direct directly, they'll tell those firms not to compete. So, a weird form of collusion. They don't issue explicit instructions, like say the same few mutual funds zone. explicit instructions like say the same few mutual funds own coca should co-compet c compete or should they collude? Well they might just pick lazy. your managers who in some way give you implicit collusion. example of the innovators being unable to internalize their games as an active investor is who are providing this information in the market. They don't make that much better than the passive investors, but they're service but the benefits are diffused throughout society. I think over confident. So there's corn on quote too much trading from a private point of view. social point of view maybe you could only have too much trading or too little trading and you might have too much trading. I explain that why wiser but by can it only be too much Well, let's say the relevant choice variable is investor temperament. Yes, you'd prefer it if everyone had the temperament just to do what was socially optimal. is some inclination in you, and you can just be confident or not confident enough and over confident excuse you too much That might be the best we can do. Again, fine tuning would be best of all. I've never seen humans where you could just fine tune all their emotions to the point where they ought to be. Yeah, we can ask a question, how far above optimal are we, or if we are above optimal in the chapter K and says that over time is markets going to more mature, they become more of and the example he gives is a newer market seems more speculative to him than the London market at the time. But today, if finances 8% of GDP, is that... what we should expect it to be to officially allocate capital. You just look at that number and you say that that's too big. I think through relevant number for the financial sector. is what percentage it is of wealth, not GDP. So your management in the financial sector has been a pretty constant 2% of wealth for a few days. decades in the United States with bumps, obviously 2008 matters, but it's more less 2% and that makes it sound a lot less sinister. It's not actually the growing at the expense And that makes it sound a lot less sinister. It's not actually like growing at the expense of something. up the economy. So you would prefer its lesson to. right, but 2% does not sound outrageously high to me. the ratio of wealth to GDP grows over time, which it tends to do when you have durable capital and no major wars, the financial sector will grow relative to GDP. And that's not sinister. Think of it in terms of wealth. - I see. So one way to think about it is as a fraction of the assets and management or something. - Yeah, okay, interesting. I wanna go back to the risk aversion thing again, 'cause... I don't know how to think about this. So his whole thing is, these animal spirits, they guide us to make all the... and English and all his activity. In some sense, he's saying like... not only every not-risk new show, but we're more risky than is... rational whereas the way you can initially think about it is that humans are risk-averse, right? they have, they prefer to take less risk than this rational in some sense. How do we score this? Well, here Milton treatment and other goat contender comes into the picture. So his name is Peace the Savage makes the point that risk aversion is essentially context dependent. So he was a behavioral economist before we knew of such things. So the same people typically will buy insurance and gamble gambling. interpret quite broadly. And that's the right way to think about it. So just flat out risk or risk-cliving behavior, it doesn't really exist. Almost everyone is context-dependent. And why you choose the context you do, maybe it's some kind of extra size and mood management. So you ensure your house so you can sleep while at night. fire insurance, but then you get a little bored and to stimulate yourself. betting on these NBA games and yes that's foolish but it keeps you busy and it you follow analytics and you read about the games online and maybe that's efficient mood. management and that's the way to think about our risk behavior. I don't bend by the way. And that's the way to think about our risk behavior. I don't bet by the way. Say I bet with my career, but I don't dead on things. Well, what is the way what's your in the water check it was the thing where you just for the entertainment value or the to take more risk than would see rational? writing the book "Goat" which is not with any known publisher, it's just online. it's free, it's published within GPT-4. Tuck me quite a while. I'm not sure there's a huge downside but it's risky in the set. So it's not what anyone else was doing. So that was a kind of risk I invested a lot of my in something weird and I've done things like that pretty frequently. So that keeps me, you could say excited. Or like starting at more you, you know, the online education. videos and economics. No, CUNY are return to me at all, indirectly it costs me a lot of money. That's a sort of risk. I feel it's paid off for me in a big way, but on one hand you can say well Tyler what are you actually have from that and the answer is nothing. Yeah. Well, the situation is the question ask about these co contenders in general and how you're judging them, where you're looking at the work as a whole, given that I don't know some of these risks pay off that these take some of them don't pay off. Should we just be looking at their top contributions and just disregard everything else. For Hayek, I think one of the points you have against him is that his talk through articles are amazing. but after that, there's a drop off. The top risk you take are the only ones that matter. why are we looking at the other stuff? I don't think through the only ones that matter, but I'll wait them pretty heavily. your failures do reflect usually and how you think or what you know about the world. So high ex failures, for instance, is an ability to come up with a normal of standard in constitution of liberty. It shows in some ways he just was not rigorous enough. He was content with the kind of Germanic, put a lot of complex is out there and hope they're profound. And you see that even in his best work. and hope they're profound. And you see that even in his best work. That is profound, but it's not as if the failures and the best work for all these people are unrelated and same with canes like canes more or less change to That's a strength, but it's also a weakness. And by considering Keynes is really works and bad works like his defenses of terrorists. You see that. And the best work he also moved on from in some way, if you read how to pay for the war, If you didn't know that or you would think of someone criticizing the general theory. How this quantity have a quality of all of this so in any thinking? grid intellectuals, where many of these people have like volumes and volumes of work. Was I for them to get the greatest sense, or is the rest of it just a distraction from the things that really for the best people it's necessary. So John Stewart Mill wrote an enormous amount. of it's quite interesting, but his ability to see things from multiple perspectives. I think was in part stemming from the fact that he wrote a lot about many different topics. French history, ancient Greece, he had real depth and breadth. If Keynes is alive today, what are the odds that he's in a poly-Hulin Berkeley writing best run less run post you've ever seen. I'm not sure what the counter factual means. So Cain is so British, maybe he's an effective truest at Cambridge and given how he seen to have run a sex life. I don't think he needed a polycule. A capolycule is a almost a William Sony and device to economize on transactions costs. According to his own notes seems to have done things on a very casual basis. - Yeah, from context to appear, seeing that these people very casually. and didn't need to be embedded in where the five people who get together regularly. So that's not a hypothetical. We saw what he did. And I think he'd be Cambridge, right? That's where he was. Why should he not today be at Cambridge? I think you'd be at Cambridge, right? That's where he was. Why should he not today be at Cambridge? How did a person, how did a game tell I forget that amount of influence? and the burden of that time and you think of somebody like Alan Turing, you know, helps with the word in World War II. is castrated because of you know when it was like encounter that is caught. it was just not public out of it. I think it away with it basically. I don't think it was a secret. about Keynes, he had interacted with enough people that I think it was broadly known. He was politically very powerful. He was astute as someone mad. his career, he was one of the most effective people. You could say of all time, not just amongst. economists and I've never seen evidence that Keynes wasn't any kind of danger. Unturing also may have intersected with national security concerns and interference. way. I'm not sure we know the fall at Alan Turing's story and why it went to badly as it did, but there was in the past very selectively. meaning very selectively, more tolerance of deviance than people today sometimes. - Oh, interesting. - It seems benefited from that, but again, I would stress the word selective. This is the same order, well what would determine who is selected for this tolerance? that very well but there's plenty say in Europe and Britain. of the early 20th century were quote unquote outrageous things were done and it's hard to find evidence that people were punished for. Now what accounts for the difference between them and the people who I would like to see a very good book on there. Yeah, I guess it's similar to our time, right? We have certain taboos and you can get away with that way. Yeah say whatever on Twitter or another way. You can't. Actually, however you can't know it. been in at least as far as I know I have been heard you being in the part of any single controversy but I feel people have been very nice to me. Yeah, what'd you do? and we're comparing guys. I think just being good natured. (both laughing) - I think just being good natured. and helping a lot of people. - Absolutely. - And touring, I'm a huge fan of, on him with Michelle Dawson, but it's not obvious that he was a very good diplomat. And it seems he very likely was a pretty terrible diplomat and that might be into this difference. How do you think about the long-term value of and the electron impact of intellectuals you disagree with. So do you think over the course of history, basically? the improvements they make to the discourse and the additional things they give us a chance to think about. out there, object-level, the things that are object-level wrong about, or what-- Let's work that way so far. We've had economic growth with interruption. But so much has fed into the stream and you have to be pretty happy with today's world compared with the 1880. The future may or may not bring us the same. But if the future brings us continuing economic growth, then I'm going to say exactly that. I hope you happy they fed into the stream. They may have been wrong, but things really worked out. But if the future brings us in a shrinking population asymptotically your project. a very low level and greater poverty and more war than you've got to under way. Who is responsible for that? Who would be responsible for that? We don't know, but I think secular thinkers will fall in relative status. of that's the outcome and that's most prominent intellectuals today. I still concluded. Yeah, who would rise in status as a result? Well, there's a number of people-- Complaining strenuously about fertility declines. war, probably the hawks will rise in status, whether or not they should. alternative scenarios that the pacifist tries and status, but I basically never see the is rising in status for any more than brief moments. Like after the Vietnam War maybe they did. after Oberon. Yes, but again that didn't last because world or two swept all that away. So the pacifist seemed to lose long-term status no matter what. all that away. So the passive history seemed to lose long-term status no matter what. And that means the Hawks were gained in status and those worried about fertility. whatever technology drives the new wars, if that is what happens. say it's true and it's possible, right? People who weren't against drones, which is not currently that big a thing. There are quite a few such people, but there's no one out there known. for worrying about drones, the way I say elizur is worried about about AI. No drones in the way R. A. I. But it's different. Yeah. All in that freedom. I'm sure I'm trying other people have you know talked about we're not that far away from don't sickness I guess you have I was a million interviews who ever read that with Ryan's any store that I was going was I'm sorry But those people could end up as much more important than they are now. Okay, let's talk about Hayek. Sure. So before we get into his actual views. I think his career is a tremendous white pill in the sense that he writes the wrote his story of in 1944. when Nazi Germany and Soviet Union are both prominent players. And honestly, like the way things shake out. I mean, he would be pretty pleased that a lot of the biggest collectivism of the day have been... wiped out. So it is from in Swipeville. You can have a career like that. He was... not as right as he thought at the time, but he ended up being too grumpy in his later years. He thought, well, collectivism is still going to engulf the world. And I think he became a grumpy old man. And it may be it's one thing to be a grumpy old man. 2024, but to be a grumpy old man in the 80s didn't seem justified. What was it cause? What was specifically to DC? they were at a vistic instincts in the human spirit, which were biologically built in. that led us to be collectivists and to envy us and not appreciative of how important. and orders worked and that this would cause the West to turn into something quite crummy. I wouldn't say he's been proven wrong, but a lot of the West has had a pretty good run. I wouldn't say he's been proven wrong, but a lot of the West has had a pretty good run since and does not major evidence that he's correct. The bad events we've seen, like some more coming back. something weird happening in our politics, I'm not sure how to describe it. I'm not sure they fit the high model, a sort of simply the accretion of more socialism. But in terms of the basic psychological urges towards enemy and resentment. rise of wokeness, the prevent evidence for his view. But now we'll miss, I would say his peak that's a big debate. I don't see wokeness as our biggest problem. I see. excessive bureaucracy, square-iotic institutions, clutch accuracy, and bigger problems. not unrelated to openness to be clear, but I think they're more fundamental and harder to fix. Let's talk about Hikes Hikes arguments. So obviously he has a famous argument. about decentralization. But when we look at companies like Amazon, Uber, they're big companies. They actually do a pretty good job of central planning, right? There's like a sea of and drivers and trade-offs that they had to square. Do they provide evidence as a new planning can work? Well, I'm not a co-sean. famous 1937 article said the firm is planning and he contrasted that to the market. I think the firm is the market. The firm is always making contracts in the market. to market checks and balances. To me, it's not an island, a central planning and the broader froth of the market. So I'm just not co-cian. So people are This is an embarrassing question for them. But I'll just say Amazon being great is the market working. and they're not centrally planning. Even the Soviet Union, it was very bad, but it didn't end up being that co-plining. You started off that way for a few years. So I think people may... this interpret large business firms in many ways. I'm both the left and the right. But under this argument, it still adds to the credence of the-- people who argue that basically we need the government to control them because if it is the case it's over union is still we need the government to control because if it is the case that's over Union is still on central planning, people would say, well, yeah, that's kind of what I want in terms of, they're still kind of checks. in terms of import exports of the market test is still applied to the government in that sense. what's wrong with that argument? Basically, you can treat the government as a back kind of firm. followed your question. I would say this I view the later Soviet Union. as being highly decentralized, managers optimizing their own rents and setting to low to take in bribes. Alof Paul Craig Roberts, what he wrote in the 80s. And that's a very bad decentralized system. And it was backed up by something high Central of Communist Party in the USSR, but it's not like... the early attempts at true central planning in the Soviet Union in the 20s right after the revolution. which did totally fail and were abandoned pretty quickly even by Lenin. which is kind of the 50s period and Soviet Union as more centrally planned than or more decentralized. at that point. Decentralized, you central plans for a number of things, obviously weapon steel production. You have targets. But even that tends to collapse into decentralized just with Pat and Senis. So your explanation for why did the Soviet Union have higher growth in the 50s. Is it more catch up? Is it more that they weren't communist of the time? I would just like a lot of the Soviet high growth was rebuilding after the war. planning can do relatively well right you see government rebuilding city say in Germany that works pretty well, but most of all, and this is even before World War II, just urban is a It shouldn't be underrated today, given that we've observed China. but so much of Chinese growth was driven by urbanization, so much of Soviet growth. You take someone working on a farm producing almost nothing, put them in the city, even under they're going to be a lot more productive. And that drove so much of Soviet growth before. after the war, but that at some point more or less ends, as it has. Well, it hasn't quite ended with China, but it's certainly slowed down and people don't pay enough attention to hasn't quite ended with China but it's certainly slowed down and people don't pay enough attention to that. and that seems pretty obvious. We're going back to the point of our firms. So I guess the point I was trying to make is I don't understand why the argument to make Well, these firms are still within the market in the sense that they have to pass these why that couldn't also apply to government-directed production. Well, sometimes it does. Right. Government runs a bunch of enterprises. but many are open to the market and Singapore, government hospitals compete with private hospitals. hospitals seem to be fine. I know they get some means of support. but not all terrible. But I guess it's a general principle you'd be against, more direct information right? Well it depends on the context so if it's say the military, probably we ought to be building a lot more of some particular things. be done through Boeing, Lockheed and so on, but the government is directing it paying for it in some way. important role planning it. And we need to do that. We've at times done that well in the passed. So people over rate the distinction between government. market, I think, especially libertarians. But that said, there's an awful lot of government see that's terrible, doesn't have the deep market check, but very often governments actually through markets and have to contract or higher consultants or higher outside parties. like a market than you think. I want to ask a different part of high-ex. So he has an argument about how it's really hard to aggregate information towards a central But then, more recently, there have been results in computer science that just finding really delivery them as computationally intractable. And we would be traced to the question. Well, the market is somehow solving this problem, right? Set it from the problem, getting information, making use of information to allocate scarce resources. How is that a competition? at process as possible. You know, I'm sure you're aware, like you've been linear up a Non-kend x constraints how does the market solve this problem? Well the market and non-conducts constraints, how does the market solve this problem? Well, the market's not solved. and we're like we're living. It's just solving for something that gets us into the next day. to be part of the triumph. Just living to fight another day, wealth not going down, not everyone quitting. And if you can do that, things will get better. And that's what we're pretty it doing is just building a sustainable structure and a lot of it isn't sustainable. the fools who start these new small businesses, but they do pretty quickly disappear. the market as well. So if you view the whole thing in terms of computing, general equilibrium. I think when our high-acraid insights is that's just the wrong way to think about the whole problem. So lack of computational ability to do that. doesn't worry me for either the market or planning because to the extent planning does work it does work by succeeding at that. Next thing in Pory in public hospitals, don't because they solve some computational problem. They seem to work because the people running them. care about doing a good job and enough of the workers go along with that. related to that, I think in the meaning of competition he makes the point that the interesting part of markets is when they go from one equilibrium to another because that's where they're trying to figure out what to produce and how to produce a variance and not the equilibrium themselves. And it seemed related to the to a point and zero to one that monopoly is when you have interesting things happen because There's just competitive equilibrium. There's no profits to invest in R&D or to do cool new things. Do this, you seem really like really the points of my reading. Absolutely. I access a competition as a discovery. for a procedure. Makes that point very explicitly. And that's one of this handful of... greatest essays, one of the greatest essays and all the economics. in the sense that the decentralization he's calling for Results and how special is having to use the very scientists and statistical - Of course. - I am a great scientist. - Yeah, yeah. - It's great. abused but we all rely in scientism. If you have an mRNA vaccine in your But we all rely on scientism. If you have an mRNA vaccine in your arm, feel a bit of scientism and so on. How much should we worry about this opening up? of the whole system to fragilities. If there's like no one mind that understands large parts of however people talk about this in the context of if there's a war in China and the pretty just didn't think about that possibility when they put valuable manufacturing and Taiwan and stuff like that. No one mind understanding things is inevitable under all systems. Mind-ment debates right if you had one mind that understood everything or could control everything you have to worry you're great deal about the corrupt ability of that mind. So legibility transparency You want enough of them in the right places, but you need some kind of balance. So I think supply chains are no longer. and underanalyzed problem, but until COVID they were, and they were a big deal. a Heikean argument doesn't always work because the signal you have is of the current price and that's not telling you how high or the infram marginal values. get say cut off from being able to buy vaccines from India because you're you know at the bottom of the to that was the problem it was the market failing because the price doesn't come you informational values. And when you move from some ability to buy the-- put to zero. Those in from marginal values really matter. would high make of AI agents and as they get more powerful you have some market between agents, there's some sort of decentralized order as a result. - I guess we'll do that. - Well, a lot of Hayekians wrote about these issues, including at George Mason. in the 1980s and I think some of those people even talked to Hayek about this. And my recollection, which is imperfect, is that he found all this very interesting. spirit of his work and on the boy was leading the research paragraph he died premature. the And it is very high, Akian and George Mason actually was a pioneer. And it is very high, Akian and George Mason actually was a pioneer in there. What do you think of the agents, the market between them and the sort of infrastructure They're going to replicate markets on their own has been my prediction. and I think they're going to evolve their own currencies. Maybe at first, they'll use Bitcoin. But there'll be an entire property rights will be based at least at first on what we now call NFTs, I'm not sure that will end up being the right name for them, but if you want property rights in the so called imaginary world. That's where you would start with Bitcoin So I don't know what percent of GDP this will be. At first it will be quite small. but it will grow over time and it's going to show how it has been right. That has decentralized to see how. Do you anticipate that it will be sort of a completely different sphere in a bit? There's like the AI agents economy and there's a human economy and they obviously have links between them. but it's not intermixed like they're not on the same social media or the same uh... task rabbit It's a very separate infrastructure that's needed to for the AI to talk to themselves versus talk to you. I don't see why we would enforce segregation. You might have a sense segregated outlet. like maybe X Twitter. Well, we'll keep off the box, let's say it can even manage. to do that. But if I want a higher proofreader, I'm going to do that. with the AI sector and pay them in Bitcoin. And I'll just say to my personal AI assistant. Hey go out and hire an AI and pay them with whatever. and then just not think about it anymore and it will happen. - Because there's like much higher transaction costs and interacting with the human world, where they can just send a bunch of vectors to each other. for them to just, just take it a separate dedicated infrastructure for that. transactions costs for dealing with humans will fall, because you'll deal with their quote unquote assistance. So you'll only deal with the difficult human when you need to and people who are very effective. will segregate their tasks in a way that reflects their comparative advantage. and people who are not effective will be very poor at that. And that will lead to some kind of bifurcation. not effective will be very poor at that. And that will lead to some kind of bifurcation of person. I can't well be will you know what to delegate I'll predict you'll be very good at it. You may not have figured it out yet. but say you're like A plus on it and other people are D. That's a big comparative advantage. to you. We're talking, I guess, about like 250 five. models. What do you think in your mind about like okay this is GbD5 what happens with GbD6? Do you see it? Do you still think in the frame of having a bunch of RA's? does it seem like a different sort of thing at some point? I'm not sure with those numbers going up. mean a what a G. B. C. seven would look like her how much smarter it could get. People make too many assumptions there. It could be the real advantages. integrating it into workflows, my things that are not better GPTs at all. and once you get to GPT say 5.5, I'm not sure you can just turn up the and have it like in a great general relativity and quantum mechanics. I don't think that's how intelligence works and this is a heike and point and some of these problems maybe no answer, like maybe the universe isn't that legible. And if it's not that legible, the GPT 11 doesn't really make sense as a, you know, a creative sure or whatever. Is it in their high can argument to be made that listen you can have into copies of these things. Imagine the decentralized order that could result, has to have a lot of time. to be made about the whole thing as a emergent order will be much more powerful than... We are anticipating. Well, I think it will be highly productive. with A-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I What is the fact that how GPT-4 works is not legible to us? or even its creator so much, does that mean it's possessing a tacit knowledge? is it not knowledge? No, those categories are well found out in my opinion. knowledge. So, not in other categories, I will find out in my opinion. to restructure our whole discourse about tacit knowledge in some new different way. these networks are they eyes even before like GPT 11 they're gonna be super productive, but they're still going to face bottlenecks, right? And I don't know how they'll be overcoming the behavioral bottlenecks of actual human beings. of the law and regulation. And we're going to have more regulation as we have more a Yeah, but when you say there'll be uncertainties, I think you made this argument when you were responding to on fossil fuel. So I'm certain T's also extend out into the domain where there's that outcome. much bigger outcome than you're anticipating. >> That's right. >> So it can be applied the same argument to AI. Like the fact that there is insert confused also reason for worry. Well, it's always reason for worry. there's uncertainty about a lot of things and AI will help us with those other uncertainties. on that you think more intelligence is likely to be good or bad, including against x-risk. I think it's more likely to be good. So if it were the only risk, I'd be more worried about-- than if there's a hom multitude of risks. But clearly there's a hom multitude of risks. But since grew up in pretty stable times. They tend not to see that in emotionally vivid terms. And then this one monster comes along and they're all terrified. markets? Well, there were prediction markets in high-ex time. I don't know that he wrote about them but I strongly suspect he would see them as markets that through prices, information. But even at the time of the Civil War, there were so-called bucket shops. in the US and New York where you would bet on things. There were betting markets. cash settlement, probably never called prediction markets, but they were exactly that later on, they were band, but it's an outstanding thing. They were betting markets on live. in 17th century Britain, different attempts to outlaw them, which I think basically ended up but under the table I'm sure it's still went on to some extent. Yeah. think about this is because his whole argument about the price system is that you can have a single dial that because his whole argument about the price system is that you can have a single dial that information but it's precisely for this and before that reason it's so useful to somebody who's trying to decide based on that information. But it's precisely for this reason that it's so aggregated, that it's hard to learn about it. one particular input to that dial. But I would stress it's not a single dial and whether thought it was a single dial. I think you can argue that either way. So people in markets They also observe quantities, they observe reaction speeds. There's a lot of dimensions to prices. other than just, oh, this newspaper cost $4, the terms on which it's advertised. So markets work so well because people are solving this complex multi- dimensional problem and the price really is not a sufficient statistic the way it is in brew and I think at times Hayek understood that and at other times he writes as if he doesn't to understand it, but it's an important point. - Hmm. - That is someone related question. to tell us about the difficulty of preserving good institutions, good people that. the media and age of corporations 18 years. And they don't get better over time, right? the advantage is raise your corporations that continue improving in that way. some firms keep improving for a long time. So there are Japanese firms that date back to the century, I think must be better today, or even in 1970 than they were away. back when, like the leading four or five Danish firms, none of them are younger than the 1920s. So, Marisk, you know, the the firm that came up with those empik, the pharmaceutical firm, they must be much better. than they were back then. Right they have to be. So how that is possible to me is a puzzle. And I think in plenty of cases, it's true. I could really say the best firms in the world aren't ones that have been improving over time. You know, if you look at the biggest companies by market cap, it's not... like this is what it takes to get there as hundreds of years of continual refinement. Tell us about the world. We're just checking to go. Well, hundreds of years, but again, don't be overly biased by We're just 100 years but again don't be overly biased by the US experience. and the tech sector. There's around the world plenty of firms that at least seem to get better as they get older. Certainly, their market cap goes up. Some of that might just be a In fact, maybe their productivity, some unit is in some ways going down. But that's a very common case and why the US is such an outlier. is an interesting question, right? Israel clearly is an outlier. In a sense they only... have pretty young firms right and they've done very well in terms of growth. by the fact that in these other countries it's actually just harder to start a new company, not necessarily the older companies are actually getting better. Possibly, but it does seem the older companies are often getting better, right? mark. So, you know, take China is pretty much entirely new firms because of communism. Japan in particular seems to have a lot of of very old firms. I don't know if they're getting better, but I don't think you can write that off as a possibility. This is high-ac in competition as a discovery process and it seems like you produce in the same way, it didn't even be as. So he says, in a democratic society, it would be completely impossible. using commands that could not be regarded as just to bring about those changes. are undoubtedly necessary, but the necessity of which could not be strictly demonstrated. particular case. So it seems like he's kind of talking about what we today call nmbism. I'm sure there's plenty to be as I'm in earlier time. You look at the 19th century debates. over restructuring Paris, housemen and putting in the broader boulevards and the like. That met with very strong opposition. It's a kind of miracle that it happened. Is this thing that's inherent to the democratic system? I would recently interview Dominic Cummings and not be-- planning is a big issue in the UK. It seems like every country has, every democratic country has And most autocratic countries have it too. And China is an exception. into some kind of an in-bism, even if they stay autocratic. Just people resist change, interest groups always matter, public opinion, all day of people resist change interest groups always matter public opinion a lot of you always matters. And it's easy to not do anything on a given day, right? lighting into the future. So but not I guess India has happened. have a lot of nimbyism. It's fallen away greatly under Modi and especially with the state have done but it can be very hard to build things in India still. Oh, it is a democracy. I guess the China example, we'll see what happens there. But it would be very surprising because the Chinese government is highly responsive to public opinion on most but not all issues. So why wouldn't they become? especially with the shrinking population. They're way over built, right? to build will be weak. And in cases where they ought to build, I would think quite soon they won't. How much of economics is the study of the... the systems that human beings use to allocate scarce resources and how much is it's just something you'd expect to true valions, AI's. It's interesting when you read the I can history of economic thought, how often they make mention of human nature specifically, like Kane's is talking about the... people have high-discomb rates, right? Yeah. here. My former colleague Gordon Tolick wrote a very interesting book on the economic of anti-societies and animal societies, and very often they obey human-like principles or more accurately human-so-bay non-human animal-like principles. So I suspect it's fairly universal and depends on quote unquote. human nature, then we sometimes like to suggest. Maybe that is a bit of an archive. and some behavioral economics, the logic of the system, Armin Alshin wrote on this. Gary Becker wrote on this, there was some debates on this in the early 1960s. automatic principles of profit and loss and selection at a firm. for a wide level really matters and it's responsible for a lot of economics being true. I think that's correct. - Actually, that raises an interesting question within firms. Correct. Actually, that raises an interesting question. Within firms, they... sort of input they're getting from the outside world of ground truth data is profit loss. bankruptcy. It's like very, very condensed information and from this, the who to hire, who to promote, to what product to pursue. How do you make sense of how firms disaggreg this work and that's information? I would like to see a very good estimate of how much your productivity gains is just from selection. and how much is from while smart humans figure out better ways of doing things. And there's some related pieces on this in the International Trade Literature. a shockingly high percentage of the productivity gains come from your worst being bankrupted by the free trade. And Alex Taberock has some MR posts on I don't recall the exact numbers, but it was higher than almost anyone thought and that to me suggests the alchi and Becker mechanisms of evolution at the level of the firm. enterprise or even sector. They're just a lot more important than human ingenuity. And that's pretty high- and put on the interesting. Let's talk about Mill. - Dr. Moon. - Why is that James Milpit, he was in the room too. his arguments about the law force against women and how basically through history that this the state of women in his society is not or the wisdom of the ages, but just the result of the back then men are stronger and have codified that. Can you play that argument in today's society against children and the way we treat them? we should treat children much better. We've made quite a few steps in that direction. think of Mills argument as it relates to Hayek. So Mills are you and you can see more than just the local information. So keep in mind, when Milro, every society that he knew at least treated women very poorly, oppressed women, women because they were physically weak. or at a big disadvantage. If you think there's some natural, disadvantage. If you think there's some matrilineal exceptions, Neil didn't know about them. universal. And Mills Chief argument is to say you're making a big mistake. If you overly aggregate information from this one observation, that behind it is a lot of structure and a lot of the structure is contingent and that if I and back the contingency for you. You will see behind the signals. So the meal is much more rationalist and high. It's one reason why Hayek hated milk. clearly on the issue of women, Nille was completely correct, that women can do much better, it will do much better. It's not clear what the end of this process will be, it will just continue for a long time, women achieving in excellent ways. And it's Neil's greatest work, I think. It's one of the greatest pieces of social science. Thank you. It's anti small sea conservatism. on Liberty is very high-ac in the right in the sense that the free speeches needed because information is... is contained in many different people's minds. - That's right, and I think they'll integrate it. So if you could call it high-ac and anti-high-ac, better than high-ac ever did. I think Melissa, greater thinker of the two. Mm. But on the topic of children. Uh, what would Mill say specifically, I guess you could have talked about it if you wanted to. I don't know if he was in today's world. We send in this school, they're there for eight hours a day, most of the And we just like use a lot of coercion on them that we don't need to. this is you. There's meal zone upbringing which was quite strict and by current but apparently extremely effective in making Bill smart. So I think Mill, very much thought that kids should be induced to learn. the classics, but he also stressed they need a tree play of the imagination. in a way that he drew from German and also British romanticism. of synthesis of the two. But by current standards, still would be seen as a meanie to our kids, but he was progressive by the standards of his own day. seen as a meaning toward kids, but he was progressive by the standards of his own day. I've never seen a cartoon for people like me, and there's many other cases like this, but since your kids are taught in the top I went on on tutors and that's that explains part of their. Greatness. I believe in one on one tutors, but I don't know how much of those examples. So I'm not sure how important it is. matter of fact if I were a wealthy person and just had a new kid I would absolutely in one I want to do. You're talking about how milk is very concerned about the... quality in the character development of the population. But when we think about the fact that somebody like him was elected to the parliament at the time. The greatest thinker whose life is elected to... to government. And it's hard to imagine that could be true in today's world. Does Yama point with regards to the quality of the population? Well, Neil, as with women, he thought a lot of improvement was possible. shouldn't overly generalize from seeing all the dunces around us. So to speak. Maybe the book is still out on that one, but it's an encouragement. and I think it's more right than wrong. There's been a lot of moral progress since Bill's I'm writing everything but certainly how people treat children or they're their wives, how many treat their wives? Even when you see negative reversals, Stephen Pinker so far seems to be right. that one but you do see places you know like Iran how women were treated. seems to have been much better in the 1970s than it is today. So they're definitely reversals. on a specific reversal of somebody of milk's quality probably wouldn't get elected to. Congress, the US, or a parliament of UK, is how big a deal is that? the cracks due to all the local statesmen who wisely advise their representatives. in the house, right? So I don't know how much that process. is better or worse compared to say the 1960s. I know plenty of smart people who think it's are worse compared to say the 1960s. I know plenty of smart people who think it's worse. not convinced that's true. Let's talk about Smith. Yeah. Okay. One of the things I find really remarkable about him is he, he, he, he publishes in 1776 And basically around that time, given publishers, the decline in the room in the environment. to publish the client of all the room in a pirate. And one of his lines in there is, if you were asked, a state of period of time and man's condition was what is best it was you know to read the rate of And this like 2000 years before that, right? So there's basically been, at least it's like, to somebody really inspired that there's basically been no growth since for 2,000 years. that context to be making the case of markets and mechanization and division of labor. I think it's like even more impressive. when you put it in the context of, yes, like basically been seeing, you know, 0.5% or less growth. you agree and this is in a way Smith being like milk. Yes. Smith is seeing the local information of very small growth and the world barely being better than the Roman Empire. from that with increasing returns division of labor, how much is possible. So Smith is a bit more of a rationalist than Hayek makes him out to be great. I wonder if we use the same sort of extrapolate thinking that's myth. use is that we haven't seen that much growth yet, but if you apply these sorts of principles, expect to see what would you make of the potential AI economy where VC 2% growth. you're now, but you have billions of potential more agents or something, what do you say it will actually be have 10% growth because of this. This is a, you would need more economic principles to explain this. just adding that to our list of existing principles would imply big gains. with Smith would predict for AI. My suspicion is that the notion of 10% growth. but simply not conceivable to him. So he wouldn't have predicted it because he never saw anything. like it, that to him, 3% growth would be a bit like 10% growth. they were just chocking and and bold him over. But Smith... just chalk him and bold him over. But Smith does. like a size different human bottlenecks and constraints of the law. quite possible Smith would see those bottlenecs as mattering and checking AI growth. speed. But as a principle, given the change we saw, the pre-ness revolution in after 1870. This to you, it seems possible that you could go from the current regime to a regime where you have 10% growth. for decades on end. That does not seem plausible to me, but I would stress the point. that high rates of growth that cades on end, the number ceased to have meaning. because the numbers make the most sense when the economy is broadly similar. Apple is in each year, there's 10% more apples and roughly constant price. the numbers become meaningless. It's not to deny there's a lot of growth. But you can think about it better by discarding the number and presumably the AI will change. composition of various bundles quite a bit over time. So when you hear these estimates about what? the GD people were happy that was in the Roman Empire, do you just disregard that in terms of qualitative changes from that time? depends what they're being compared to. So there's pieces and economics. a history that are looking at say 17th 18th century Europe comparing it to the Roman Empire, most to GDP's agriculture, which is pretty comparable, right? especially in Europe. It's not wheat versus corn. It's wheat and wheat. I've seen estimates that all say by 1730, some parts of Western Europe are clear. better off than the Roman Empire at its peak. But like within range, those are the best to me it's I know and I trust those they're not perfect but I don't think there's an index number problem. them so much. And so when people say we're 50% richer than... an average room at the peak of the Empire. But this kind of thinking... and make sense to you. It doesn't make sense to me. And a simple way to show that, let's say you could buy from the Sears Robot catalog of today or from 1905 and you have 50 the Sears Robot Catalog of today or from 1905. to spend, which catalog would you rather buy from? about it. Now if you just look at changes in the CPI, it should be obvious you'd prefer the catalog from 1905. Everything's so much cheaper. That almost nothing. Right. At the same time, you don't want that stuff. It's not mostly part the modern bundle. So even if you ended up referring the earlier catalog, the fact that you have to think about it reflects the ambiguities. When you read that contemporary-- of Smith, other economists were writing at the time, where his arguments It's just clearly given the evidence of the time much better than everybody around. It was just that expo is clearly right, but given the arguments of the time, it could have gone ways. Well, there aren't that many economists at the time is Smith, so it depends what you counting. I mean the two fellows, COTS, you could compare Smith too, or Sir James Stewart. who published a major work, I think, in 1767, on some matters. Stewart was ahead of Smith, not most. Clearly Smith was far greater, but Stewart was no and the other point of comparison is David Hume, Smith's best friend, of course. Per page you could argue Hume is better than Smith. Certainly on monetary theory Hume is better. Smith. Now he's not a goat contender. He just didn't do enough. But I wouldn't say Smith was ahead of Hume. He had more and more important things. but hum is pretty impressive. Now if you're talking about, oh like the eight century German camera lists. Well, they were bad mercantil-- But there's people say writing in Sweden in the 1760s analyzing exchange rates who had better understandings of exchange rates than Smith ever did. So it's not that just dominated everyone. Let me offer some other potential. nominees that were not in the book. Sure, for goat and I want your opinions up them. In terms of explaining how land is fundamentally different from labor and capital when we're thinking. in terms of explaining how land is fundamentally different from labor and capital when we're thinking about. Well first I'm not sure land is that fundamentally different from labor and capital. value of land comes from improvements and much of improvement can be quite subtle. doesn't just have to be, you know, putting a plow to the land. So I would put your... in the top 25, very important thinker, but he's a bit of a... Not a one note, Johnny. His book on protectionism is still one of the best books on free But you circumscribed in a way, say Smith and Mill, we're not. Today, we will be ready to see you right. in Vic City status is way up for this reason right of you and being in being I think that's correct He was undervalued. He's worth reading very carefully a few years ago. We're recording here at Mercatus. We had a 12 person two day session with-- Peter Thiel just on reading Henry George. It's all we did. very impressed I think. I'm informed you are interested they might enjoy the episode I did with Lars that uh... who oh i don't know about this he's a georgist oh yeah he's uh... He's a really smart guy. He wrote basically he wrote a book review of that once caught Alexander's book review contest. Oh, I end with this. And then he says turned into a whole book. come his own, which is actually really good. And I think through something truly humane and when you read him, that can be a bit infectious, that's positive. And there was some insane turnout for his funeral, right? Like it was very popular at the time. - Yeah, and that was deserved. - Yeah, I guess you already answered this question, in terms of helping us think about terms and property rights and transaction costs. Well, even though I think the 1937 piece is wrong, it did create one of the most important genres. He gets a lot of credit for that. He gets a lot of credit for the coast theorem. FCC property rights piece is superb. The light has pieces very good. in the top 25. But in terms of like his quantity, it's own quality. 25, but in terms of like his quantity, it's own quality. quite enough, there's no macro, but of course you rate him very very high. How about your former advisor Thomas Schelling? He is a top-tier node. but I don't think he's a serious contender for greatest economists of all time. He gets the most credit for making game-seary, intuitive, and And that's worth a lot. Economics is self-command. he was a pioneer, but in a way that's just going back to the Greeks and Smith. He's not a serious contender for go, but it topped your noble Laureate for sure. of a fun quote in the book on Arrow where you say his work was a Nobel prize. important but not important important. So, part is it we're important important. like how to price securities. So I think I underrated that I would be in the book if you ask. what regrets do I have about the book? I say very very nice things about his push to me even more. What would he arrest him for the action markets? Well he was really the pioneer. of theoretically understanding how they work. So, He was around until quite recently. I'm sure he had things to say about prediction markets probably. positive. One of the points you make-- the book is economics at the time was really a way of carrying forward big ideas about the world. What discipline today is where that happens? Well, internet writing, it's not a discipline. But it's a sphere and plenty of it happens more than ever before, but it's irrigated from what counts as original theorizing in the academic sense of that word. Is that a good or bad segregation? I'm not sure. But it's really a very sharp... radical break from how things have been. And it's why I don't think there'll be a new Probably not ever or if there is it will be something AI related. That sounds about right to me. But within the context of internet writing, obviously there's there economics being a prominent one. When you split it up, economics being a prominent one. When you split it up, it's a day. in terms of, I don't know, people writing in terms of computer science concepts or people who is today in the audience the discipline cease to matter that really good internet writing is multidisciplinary when I meet someone like a Scott Aronson who's doing like computer science AI type internet writing on this blog. I have way more in with him, then with a typical research economist, say it Boston University. And it's not because I know enough of computer science, like I may or may not. is certain amount, but it's because our two enterprises are so similar, or Scott Alexander He writes about mental illness also. That just feels so similar. And we really have to rethink what the disciplines are. It may be that method of writing is the key. differentiator for this particular sphere. Yeah, it's got everything. college. Yeah, that's where I decided I'm I'm not going to go to grad school. Because you just see. Because you see two standard deviations above you easily. You know, you might as well choose a different game. But his method of thinking and writing. is infectious like that is gone as an under any of the rest of us. So I think in the book you say you were raised as much by... economic thought or the history of economic thought as you are by your graduate training more much. - Not even close. - Today, if people would say, I was not gonna be so hopper in. Young economist, he said he was raised on March, - Yeah, yeah. - On the same way that you were raised I thought how do you? Does this seem like a good trade? today I raised on Skylick and her and Martyr Revolution. - And for margin, I would like to see more people I don't just need that in the selfish way. The internet writing mode of things. I would like to see more economists and research scientists raised on it. But the number may be higher than we think. Like if I hadn't run emergency adventures, I wouldn't know about Basel. per say, maybe would not have met him. And it's infectious. So, my maybe would not have met him and it's infectious so it might always be but it will be the people most likely to have new ideas and it's a very powerful new mode of thought, which I'll call internet way of writing and thinking. And it's not Recognized as something like a new field or discipline, but that's what it is. I wonder you're doing enough of that when it comes to AI where I think you have really interesting thoughts about GPD file level stuff but this has somebody with your sort of poly-mathic understanding of different fields. If you just like, it's These trends, I feel like you might have a lot of interesting thoughts about when you think, just in terms of what might be possible with. something much further down the line. Well I have a whole book with AI predictions averages over. And I have about 30 Bloomberg columns and probably 30 or 40 marginal revolution posts. I can just say I'll do more but the idea yet which ideas arrive at me is the binding and strain. I'm not holding the back. So he had an interesting question. should society, or government subsidized savings. so that we're in effect having at least so basically as your... social discount rate. So, and this is people on average that probably have you know a they're prioritizing their own lives, they have discon rates based on their own lives. the government has to be self-siding savings. I'll come close to saying yes. savings right now. So we should stop taxing savings. Absolutely. I think it's hard to come up with workable ways of subsidizing savings that don't give people, a lot of free stuff in a way that's politically unacceptable and also unfair. So I'm not sure we have a good way of subsidizing savings, but in principle I would before it if we could do it in the proper targeted matter. - Although you had a good argument against-- this in stubborn attachments, right, that over the long term, if economic growth is high enough then. the savings of the Red Bull would just be dissipated to everybody below. Well, I'm not sure if whom it's dissipated, it does get dissipated. The great fortunes of the past I'm not sure if whom it's dissipated it does get dissipated the great fortunes of the past But they may not go to people below and the idea of writing to attack system subsidies on that scale, and that's in subsidies to wealth. not GDP, but wealth is, say, six to eight times GDP. problems are quite significant. It's not an idea of pushing, but there may be more ways you can do it, that say only benefit people who are poor. ways you can improve the workings of local credit unions through better deregulation, better kind of de facto subsidy without having to subsidize. all of the saved wealth. There's got to be a lot of ways you can do that, and we should look for that more. Relatedly, I think a couple years ago, Paul Schleming had an interesting paper that if you look from 13 11 to now interest rates have been declining. There's been hundreds of years. of interest rate declines. What is the big picture explanation of this trend? I'm not sure we have one. You may know Cowan's third law, all propositions of how real interest rates are wrong. But simply lower risk, better information, higher buffers of wealth. be what you'd call the intuitive, economic explanations. There's probably something to-- them but how much do that trend do they actually explain is like a percent of the variance I don't know. Let's talk about anarchy. You have P.V. First about this ad. the last time we talked and they're really interesting. So maybe you can re-say arguments as you answer this question. But how much of your arguments about how network industries lead to these cartel-like dynamics. How much of that can help explain what happened to social media web 2.0. I don't view that as such a cartel. I think there's a at one level, which is small but significant. This is maybe more true three, four years ago than today with the Alano and Twitter and other changes. off social media platforms. Three, four years ago, they would tend to get kicked off. all or most of them. It wasn't like a consciously collusive decision. It wasn't like a consciously collusive decision. like oh well I know the guy who runs that platform and he's pretty smart and if he's worried should be worried and that was very bad. I don't think it was otherwise such a collusive equilibrium, maybe some dimensions on hiring. people, software engineers, there was some collusion, not a of bidding, but it was mostly competing for attention. So I think the real risk protection agencies aside of network-based pollution is through banking systems where you have clearinghouses and payments networks and to be part of the clearinghouse and the absence of legal constraint can indeed everyone, include and if you don't go along with the collusion, you're kicked out of the payment system. That strikes me as a real issue. Do your arguments against and our... Do they apply it all to web 3.0, crypto like stuff? Do I think it will evolve into collusion? I don't see why it would. I'm open to here. the argument that it could though, what would that argument go like? Well I guess we did see crypto that you have in order to just have workable settlement you need at these centralized institutions and from there you can get kicked off those. the government is involved with those. You can maybe abstract the government away and say that they will need to in some sense in order to facilitate transactions. And the exchanges have ended up quite centralized. - Yeah, and that's an example of it, clearing out this in exchange is the vulnerability. but I don't know how much Web 3.0 is ever going to rely on that. you can create new crypto assets more or less it will, there's the locality of getting them started. But if there's a real problem with the preexisting crease. I would think you could overcome that. So I would expect something more like a two in Frou. waves of centralization decentralization and natural checks embedded in the system. That's my intuition at least. Does your argument against anarchy prove too much in the sense that That's my intuition at least. - Does your argument against anarchy prove too much, in the sense that globally? for nations and in our calculations of each other and they can't they can't for us course and monopolize each other, but they can coordinate to punish matters actors in the way we'll do on protection agencies today. right, like, be in sanction or career together or something. I think that's a very good point and very good question. But I would rephrase my argument. You could say it's my argument against anarchy. it is an argument against anarchy, but it's also an argument that says, "I enter keys everywhere." Well, the state government saw the different layers of federalism. There's not quite a final layer of adjudication, the way you might think we participate. I'm not sure how strong it is. Internationally, of course. You know how much gets enforced by hegemon how much is spontaneous order even the different parts of the federal government. We're going to kind of anarchy with respect to each other. So you need a fair degree of collusion for things to work and you want to accept that but maybe in a strive scene way where you don't trumpet it too loudly But the point that anarchy itself will evolve enough collusion to enable it to persist, if it persists at all, is my central point. My point is like, well, anarchy isn't that different. Now, given we've put a lot-- of social political capital into our current institutions. I don't why you would press the anarchy button. But if I'm North Korea and I can press the anarchy button. and for North Korea, I get that it might just evolve into Haiti. But I probably would press the anarchy button for North Korea, if at least someone would come in and control the - This is related to one of those classic arguments in the gonna stay on our key that Andrea and I can do anything. So the government is allowed. Therefore we're in a state of anarchy in some sense. We have a funny way that arguments correct. We have evolved something like government and hate. has done this but in very bad ways where it's like gangs and killings it doesn't have to be that bad, there's medieval Iceland, medieval Ireland, they had various forms of there's medieval Iceland, medieval Ireland. They had various forms of anarchy. clearly limited in their destructiveness by low population, in effective weapon. But they had a kind of stability. You can't just dismiss them. You can debate how governmental were they, but the ambiguity of this debate is part of the point. that every system has a lot of anarchy and anarchy have a fair degree of collusion if they survive. Oh, actually, so I want to go back to a much really in the conversation where you're saying, It seems like intelligence is a net good. - You should call for the AI. - Well, not uncritically. But just as a starting point, it's like, it's more intelligence isn't going to help you. really big problems anyway but I don't know if you still have the view that we have like 800 your timeline for human civilization. But that sort of timeline implies that intelligence actually... is going to be the reason we have any interview timeline, presumably as some product. intelligence, right? My worry is that energy becomes too cheap. and people at very low cost can destroy things rather easily. if a nuclear is destroying a city with a nuclear weapon cost $50,000. What would the world look like? I'm just not sure it might be more stable. and we think, but I'm greatly worried and I could readily imagine it falling apart. But I guess the bigger point of making is that, in this case, the reason the nuclear so she was because of intelligence. Now that doesn't mean we should stop intelligence. But if that's like the end result of intelligence over hundreds of years, that doesn't seem like... and tell him, "This is always a neck good." - Well, we're doing better than the other great a-- I would say, even though we faced these really big risks. And in the meantime, we did incredible So that's a gamble I would take. But I believe we should view it more self-consciously as a sort of... of gamble and it's too late to turn back. The fundamental choice was one of these and that may have happened hundreds of millions or billions of years ago. And that may have happened hundreds of millions or billions of years ago. and talk for decentralization. Intelligence is going to have advantages. You're not going to be able to turn the clock back on it. So you're walking this tight rope and by goodness you'd be... better do a good job. I mean we should train our broader history more like that. And it has implications for how you think about X-risk. Again, I think if the X-risk... people, a bit of them it's like well I've been living in Berkeley a long time and it's it's really not that different my life's a bit better and we can't risk all of this. But that's not how you should view broader history. I feel like you're an extra person. You have a I mean, even they don't think we're like 100% guaranteed to go out by 800 years or something. guaranteed it all. It's up to us. I just think the risk, not that everyone dies. I think that's quite low, but that we retreat to some kind of pretty chaotic form of like medieval Balkan's existence with a much lower population. That seems to me quite a high rate. with or without AI is probably the default setting. Given that you think that's the default setting, why is that not? a big part of your, what you're thinking about, how new technologies are coming about. Why not consciously think in terms of is this getting us with the outcome where you avoid this sort of a free industrial state that would result from the $50,000 news. think the risk is cheap energy more than AI per say. Admittedly, AI could speed the pattern. cheap energy. It seems very hard to control the strategy. that's worked best so far is to have relatively benevolent nations become hegemon. and established dominance. So it does influence me. I want the US, UK, some other subsets of nations to establish dominance in AI. it may not work forever, but in a decentralized world, it sure beats the alternative. So a lot of the AI types, they're two rationalists, and they don't start with the premise that we chose centralized world a very very long time ago even way before humans. world a very very long time ago even way before humans. point when you were talking about Keynes in the book where he said one of his faults was that he that people like him would always be in charge. - That's right. - And I do see that also in the alignment discourse. And I worry about that. this for my own point of view. So even if you think US is pretty benevolent today, which is a highly... contested and mixed proposition. I'm an American citizen, pretty patriotic, but I'm fully aware of the long history of my government and killing and slaving doing other terrible things. to people and then you have to rethink that over a long period of time. time period that affects the final outcome. Even if the average. just pretty good and then if power corrupts and if government even indirectly controls AI systems so US government could become worse because it's a leader right? But again I've got to still take that over China or Russia. or wherever else it might be. I just don't really understand when people talk about national security. I've never seen the AI do say anything that made sense. And I recall those early days remember China issued that where they say we're only going to put a AI that are safe and they can't criticize the How many super smart people? And I mean super smart like Z. just jump on that and say, "See, China's not going to compete with us. We can try to to have zero understanding of some properties of decentralized worlds, or LE was a trimester day. I didn't think it was a joke. Oh, the This is a problem that I can read all the legal code and threaten us with all these penalties. has screwed up the legal system is. - Yeah. - It would just need core. room waits of like 70 or 700 years. It's not it wouldn't become a thing people are afraid. that would be a social problem in some way. What's your sense of how the government reacts when? the labs are doing, we're going to have how they should react, how they will react, and when the labs are doing, we're going to have how they should react, how they will react, and when the left are doing like I don't know training runs and if if under the premise that you know these are powerful models not human level per se, but just they could do all kinds of crazy stuff. How do you think the government is going to... Are they going to nationalize the labs or stay in Washington? What's your sense? I think our national security people are amongst the smartest people in our government. They're mostly well-intentioned in a good way. They're paying careful attention to anything. But what will be the political will to do what they don't control? And my guess is until there's through an SPF like incident, which might even not be significant, but a headlines incident, which SPF was, even if it doesn't affect the revolution of crypto, which I guess is my view. Well, until there's that, you won't do much of anything. And then we'll have an SPF like incident and we'll overreact. seems a very common pattern in American history. And the fact that it's AI, the stakes might be higher, whatever, I doubt if it will change the recurrence of that pattern. How would Robert know that I think about different AIU topials? I think he did think about different AI Utopius, right? I believe he, whether he wrote or talked about it, but the notion of humans might smarter than they are, or the notion of aliens coming down who are like something so way morally intellectually way beyond us. He did write about that and he was worried about they would treat us. So he was sensitive to what you would call AI risk for you to be more very early on. What was his take? because not a thinker of takes. And I think our speculations in multiple parts. possibilities. I liked about him. He was worried about it. This I know. And I talked to him about it, but I couldn't boil it down to a simple take. I made him a vegetarian, I should add. Wait, that made him, oh, because we wanna be treated. the entities that are to us as a L.A. - Lian from outer space, my tree thus. the entities that are to us as a L. A. - Lian from outer space, my treat us. animals may not be a perfect analogy but it's still an interesting point and therefore we should be vegetarians. That was his argument. At least he felt he should be. I wonder if we should honor past generations more or at least I respect their wishes more for if we think of the problem is similar to how we react to our previous generations. Do we want the ice treatises we treat people thousands of years ago? good question and I've never met anyone who's consistent with how they view wishes of the dead. I don't think there is a consistent, philosophically grounded point of I'm that one. I guess the sort of Thomas Paine you don't regard them at all. is that not so consistent? - It's consistent, but I've never met anyone who actually lives according to it. And what's inside the contradict you themselves? Well, say, you know, there's doubts for to die. and this past gave them instruction, sure. They would put weight on those instructions. out there, there's probably someone who wouldn't, but I've never met such a person. the burke view that you take them very seriously. It might wise that not self-consistent. The burke view, what do you mean for you. Oh, well, it's time inconsistent to take those preferences seriously. and Burke himself understood that. He was a very deep thinker. So, where do you take them seriously? Now, but it's time passes. Other ancestors come along. you have to keep on changing course, what you should do now should it be what the ancestry behind us want or your best estimate of what the 30 or 40 years of ancestry. to come will want once they have become ancestors. So it's time and consistent. There's not, again, there's not going to be strictly philosophical resolution. attempt to find something sustainable and that which survives will be that which we do and then we'll somewhat rationalize it exposed. There's an interesting book about the ancient ancient Greeks. I forgot the name, but it's talked about the hearts that they have for the, for their families, I forgot the name, but it's talked about the hearts that they have for their families. God's but then over time if you keep this hard going for hundreds of years it's like thousands of ancestors that led you didn't remember their names, right? Where you praying to. And then it's like the arrow here in front of the guy. You can't even ask him. We were talking before we started recording about Argentina and the reforms are shown. they're trying to dollarize because the dollar is more stable than their currency. But this raised the question of why is it dollar sustainable? So we're also democracy, right? But like the dollar. seems pretty well managed. What is the larger explanation of why? The monetary policy seems well managed in the US. Well, the US voters hate inflation. mostly for good reasons, and we have enough wealth that we can pay our bills. without having to inflate very much. And 2% has been stable now for quite a while. Now it's an interesting question which I cannot answer and I have looked into this and I have asked Argentina. Why does Argentina in particular have recurring waves of inflation. Is there something about the structure of their interest groups that inevitably, recurringly leads them to demand too much, I suppose. But there's plenty of poor badly run countries that don't have hyperinflation. African countries historically have not had high rates of hyperinflation, haven't had high rates of inflation. Why is that? Well, maybe they don't capture enough through senior age for some reason. currency holdings aren't large enough to some kind of financial repression. I don't know. But it's very hard to explain why some of these countries but not others go crazy with the >> This is maybe a broader question about different institutions in the government where I don't understand enough to evaluate their like object level decisions. But if you look at the Supreme Court or the Federal Reserve or something, like they're really well-run, company organizations with highly technocratic, you know. uh, nonpartisan people running them. They're not nonpartisan, but they're still well run. Yeah. And... nonpartisan people running them they're not nonpartisan but they're still well-run yeah and What's the theory of why these issues is in particular are so much better run. Is it just that big? are, there was one step back from direct elections, is it that they have traditions of knowledge within them, how do you think about this? I think both of those, I don't think the point this efficient because there's plenty of unelected bodies that are totally correct. world most of them are perhaps. Some sense of American civic virtue that gets communicated and then the incentives are such. So you're on the Fed for a while. what you can do afterward can be rewarding, but you want to reputation. for having done a good job. So your sense of morality in your private self interest coincides And that's pretty strong. And we're still in that loop. I don't really see signs. with that loop breaking. - It was striking to me how many times I'll read an interesting article and the person who wrote it, it's like the former head of the Federal Reserve in New York or something. It just seems like this is... the strong indication of these institutions that. - The standards are very high, and if you speak with any of those people. who've been on fit boards, ask them questions, they're super smart, super involved, curious. really for the most part do want the best thing for their country. Going back to this economist, at the end you talk about how you're kind of disappointed in this. that economics has taken. Maybe I just went not surprised, right? It's division of labor, Adam Smith, said it would make people a bit feeble minded and curious was completely correct. - Wait, Adam's been saying, what would make people-- - To the end of the day. - Yeah, not stupid. You know current economic researchers probably have never been smarter but the way less in less curious. Patrick was in put it interesting way. where he said in the past maybe thinkers were more interested in into the biggest questions, but if they couldn't do it rigorously in a tractable way, they would just... they would make the trade-off in favor of the big question and today we make the opposite trade-off. like a fair person. I think that's correct and I would add that saying the time of Smith there was nothing you could do rigor... person. I think that's correct and I would add that saying the time of Smith there was nothing you could So there was no other option. Oh, I mean, a specialized in memorizing all the grade prices and run some great account of interest on that. That'll be rigorous. It's really Stanley Jevins, who to the Anglo world introduced this notion. something else you can do that's rigorous. It was not yet rigorous, but he opened the door and showed the alternative of the driven's paradox. I would say it's working statistics originally on the value of money. physical work on coal also had some rigor so you're not wrong to sit down. and Jeffens just showed that rigorous statistical work and economics could be the same. thing and that was his greater innovation than just marginalism. So he's an underrated figure. Maybe he should be in the book in a way. But it had some unfortunate secondary consequences. Too many people crowd into specialization. is a funny word to use because they're each sitting in their separate notes, but it's a kind of crowding. is there some sort of high-acting solution here where in markets? the effect of having the sort of decentralized processes, the sum is greater than the parts. as in academic disciplines, the sum is just a bunch of different statistical There's no grant theory that comes together as a result of all this. Is there some eye-acting solution here? Well, yes. You and I are the Hakeen solution. that is specialists proliferate. We can be quote unquote parasitic on them. and take what they do and turn it into interesting larger bundles that they have in dreamtive. and make some kind of living doing that, and we're much smaller and number. You're not sure how numerous we should be. And there's a bunch of us, right? - Yours is never category, Tyler I'm running a podcast here - We're exactly in the same category as my point. And what do you see as a future of this sort of... the kind of sort of thinking you do. Are you do this year? You're so as the last of the literary economy. kind of sort of thinking you do. Are you do this year yourself as the last of the literary economist? sort of this kind of, anyways, it's just gonna be the slayed star codexes, are they gonna take care of it Well, the next me won't be like me. Yeah, and that's since I'm the last, but I don't think it will disappear. It will take new forms. They have a lot more to do with AI and I don't think it's going to go away this to demand for it is a real demand for our products. We have a lot of readers, listeners. people interested, whatever, and there'll be ways to monetize that. the challenge might be competing against AI, and it doesn't have to be that I does it better than you or I do that would might but simply the people prefer to read with the AI's for 10 or 20 years and it's harder to get an audience just playing with the AI says a lot of fun. So that will be a real challenge. I think some of us will be up to it. You'll be faced with it more than I will be. But it's going to change a lot. Okay, one of the final things I want to do is I want to go into political philosophy a little. - Okay. - And asked you-- - I think we haven't been doing anything. Okay, so I want to ask you about certain potential weaknesses. of the Democratic capitalist model that we live in. And in terms of both, in terms of whether you I think they're out of the wrong, sorry, I'm sure you're going to write. And second, how-- regardless of how right they are, how persuasive and how powerful. A force they will be against our system of government and function. Okay, okay, so there's a libertarian critique that basically democracy is sort of random walk with a drift toward socialism. And there's also a ration of fact, we're going to program And so it just ends up towards socialism at the end. It ends up with having government that is-- large. But I don't see the evidence that it's wrote to surfed him. France, Sweden, have had pretty big governments way too large, in my opinion. haven't threatened to turn autocratic or totalitarian, certainly not. and to turn autocratic or totalitarian, certainly not. many of those countries. So we moved away from government approaching 70 percent. Senate GDP and now it's quite manageable. Government there should be smaller yet. I don't think the trend is that negative. It's more of a problem with regulation and the administrative But we've shown an ability to create new sectors like the parts of tech. If they're not unregulated laws apply to them, but they're way less regulated and it's a kind of Are that race doesn't look too bad to me at the moment? But so far so good. So the critique should be taken seriously. but it's yet to be validated. How about the egalitarian critique from the left? that you can't have the inequality the market creates with the political and moral equality. that the human's deserve and demand. - They just say that. US has high degree of income inequality. Brazil, a much less swell functioning society. Brazil continues. average it will probably grow one or two percent. That's not a great record. But Brazil has to go up and up off a smoke, I don't see it. And how about the niche and critical. And the end of history, Fukayama says this is more powerful. worried about, more than the left is pretty. Over time, basically what you end up with is the last man. and you can't define the civilization, you know the story. - It's a lot of words. (laughing) I've asked Fuki on this. He's not... this is a long time ago, but he wasn't short. market then. Again, it's a real issue. It seems to me the problems of today for the most part, or more manageable than the problems of any pre- We still, you know, might all go poof, return to medieval. Balkan style existence in a millennia or whatever, but it's a fight. totally in the fight, and we have a lot of resources and talent. So, like let's do it. Okay, I don't see why that particular worry. It's a lot of work. Okay, I don't see why that particular worry. It's it's a lot of word And I like to get very concrete. Like, even if you're not short the market, is that with the main... relevant worry, where would that show up in asset prices as a cop worse? I think it's very useful to ask and when people don't have a clear answer I get worried where does your a prediction that 100 year on the line will have the $50,000 new. that show up in the asset prices. I think at some point, VIX, you know, an index of volatility go up. Probably not soon nuclear proliferation has not gone crazy. which is wonderful, but I think at some point it's hard to imagine it. not getting out of control. Last I read, Vix is surprisingly low and - That's right, I think 24 is on the path to be a pretty good year. Yeah, or do you think the market is just wrong in terms of thinking about both geopolitical arrests from Israel or... But if the market's wrong at all, I think that war will converge. I'm not saying the humanity-- Harry and outcome is a good one, but in terms of the global economy, I think markets, I think rationally about it, though the ration forecast of course is often wrong. What's your sense on the scaling stuff when you look at the arguments in terms of what's coming, how do you react to that? Well, your piece on that was great. I don't feel I have the expertise to judge that as a technical. It does seem to me intuitively it would be weird on the technical side. Scaling just stopped working. But on the knowledge side, I think people underestimate possible. barriers. And what I have in mind is quite a bit of reality, the universe. in some very fundamental way, simply not be legible, and that there's no easier in fruitful way to just quote unquote apply more intelligence to the problem. general relativity and quantum mechanics, it may just be we fit the frontier. And there's not a final layer of years that it fits together. So there's no way to train and they... or other thing to make it smarter to solve that. And maybe a lot of the world is like that and that to me people are not taking seriously enough so I'm not sure that and that to me people are not taking seriously enough so I'm not sure with the and that will be to bigger and better and smarter AI. possible for you know P versus NP type of reasons and just like harder to make for their discoveries. But I feel like we have pretty good estimates in terms of the declining. research productivity because of looking for being on in this sort of sense. we're reaching the frontier and whatever percent it is a year if you can just keep the AI population growing faster than that. If you just want to be crude about it, that seems enough to, if not... get to the ultimate physical synthesis at least much further than we're human would get in the same span of time. That seems very possible. I think we'll get further. I expect to be activity gains. As a side note, I'm less convinced by the declining research or productivity argument that I used to be. So the best way to measure productivity for an economist is and wages of researchers haven't gone down. they've gone up. Now they may not be producing new ideas. You might be paying them to be are to manage PR or do this manage other researchers. But I think that's a worry that we have a lot more researchers. generally rising researcher wages and that hasn't boosted productivity growth. China, India, South Korea brought into the world economy, scientific talent. It's better than if we hadn't done it, but it hasn't in absolute terms boosted productivity And maybe that's a worrisome sign. - On the metric researcher. it seems like it could just be a fact that even the even the less marginally useful improvements are worth the extra cost in terms of if you think of a company like Google is probably paying as engineers a lot more than I was paying in the early days, even that they're doing less now. I have changing a pixel in the view Google page is going to affect billions of users. The similar thing could be happening economy, right? That might hold for Google researchers, but take people in far-- environment, bio medicine. There's a lot of private sector for the medicine. There's a lot of private sector finance research. quickly financed by buying up smaller companies. And it only makes sense if you get something out of it that really works like a good vaccine or good medication, as epic super profitable. So wages for biomedical researchers in general haven't come down. Now finally it's paying off but I'm not sure will be as revolutionary as the other AI optimists believe. I do think it will raise productivity growth in ways which are visible. To what extent... But in the conventional growth story, you would think in terms of population size, right? you just increase the population size, you get much more research at the other end. To what extent does it make sense to think about? Well, if you have these billions of AI copies, we get to think of that in terms of as a proxy of how much progress they could produce. Is that a not a sensible way to think about that? have millions of copies probably won't matter. It will matter much more how good is the best thing we have and how well integrated is it into our other systems. have bottlenecks of their own. And the principles governing the growth of that are much harder to discern. It's probably a much slower growth than just juicing up. a lot of these things and they're trained on more and more GPUs. But precisely because... the top seems to matter so much is why we might expect bigger gains. Jews in the 20th century, 2% of population are less than that and 20% of the Nobel Prize It does seem like you can have a much bigger impact than if you're on the very tail. just a few hundred ton of known copies. Maybe that's a good analogy that the active AI will be like in the 20th century the impact of choose right. right yeah but it's not extraordinary it's not a science fiction novel I mean you read the early 20th century stuff as you have you know you it's like a slow take off right there of like go from V2 Rock is to the moon and a couple of decades. crazy pace of change. Yeah, that's what I think it will be like again. Great stagnation is over. So change. Yeah, that's what I think it will be like again. Great stagnation is over. We'll go back. earlier rates of change transform a lot of the world. Mostly a big positive. A lot of us disrupted institutions along the way. That's my prediction. But no one writes a science section novel about the 20th century. It feels a bit ordinary still. Yeah, even though it wasn't. I forget the name of the philosopher you asked us to but the... The feminist philosopher you asked the question. Let me ask you a question. What would have to be different? to be a social conservative. Right. But what would have to be different for you to not be a her per se, but just one of these people who like this is the main thing to be thinking about - Well, I think it is one of the main things we should be thinking about, but I would say, I thought international cooperation were very possible. possibly have very different views than I do now, or if I thought no other country. could make progress on AI. This seemed unlikely to me, but they're not logically impossible. So, the fundamental premise we're idea for from a lot of the doomers. is my understanding of a decentralized world and its principles being primary. understanding is some kind of comparison like here's the little people and here's the big monster and the big monster gets bigger and even if the big monster does a lot of good things it's just getting bigger and here people. That's a possible framework, but if you start with decentralization and and well how we can manage this. always my perspective might be more pessimistic. But you don't... don't just think you can wake up in the morning and like legislate safety. You look at the history of relative safety having come from hegemon. and you hope your head German stays good enough, which is a deeply fraught proposition. I recognize that. What's the next book? I'm already It is on Jevens. The title is the marginal revolution. But not about the blog about the actual March. But not about the blog about the actual March. Yeah, but it's maybe a monic 40,000 words, but I don't think book length should matter anymore. I want to be more radical on that. I think 40,000 words is perfect because it will actually fit in content. So you do the team before. that. Yeah, but I want to have it in GPT in some way. Okay. place to. Okay, there's all the questions that I tell her. This is a lot of fun. and keep up the great work and delighted you're at it. Yeah, thanks for coming on the podcast. The third time now, so a lot of fun. OK, bye everyone.

